Version control is a way to access and control files of a whole program without making changes to other files of the program. The project/tree is saved in a repository/holding, where everyone working on the project can access it online. The branches can be retrieved and modified by anyone working in the tree, without erasing the previous version of a committed branch. For instance, Github is an example of version control where my husband is part of a team from all over the world and each team member can access the repository online, pull the latest updates so they each know what changes to make with their assigned file, make changes and send/commit their work back to their branch without making changes to the whole project. The whole team has the latest version (and previous versions), of the branch, of the tree, in the repository, in Github, online.

<!-- CSE 210: Programming with Classes

Version Control - Articulate
Overview
Articulate the principle of version control.

Instructions
Now that you have learned about the principle of version control and practiced using Git and GitHub, answer the following question (the way you would in a job interview):

What is version control and why is it important?
Your response must:

Explain the meaning of Version Control
Highlight a benefit of Version Control
Provide an application of Version Control. This means, provide an example of how Version Control could be used.
Show a command used in Version Control (for example a Git command)
Thoroughly explain these concepts (this likely cannot be done in less than 100 words)
Use your own words
Remember that your goal is to learn these topics well enough that you can explain them in your own words in a job interview or when you talk with your coworkers. With this in mind, you should write your response in your own words.

You should NOT copy and paste your response from the preparation material or from another source you find online, including using an AI generator. Using a response that is not your own is a violation of the University Honor Code, will result in a 0 on the assignment or failing the class, and will not help you learn.
 -->